Prototype archive 

Sept 28th @Columbia


Our kick off Sherlock Holmes & the IoT event brought together about 30 participants for a day long collaborative lab. A diversity of participants gathered to explore how the project can experiment with new forms and functions of storytelling.


Running Order 


Welcome participants, explain the flow of the day


5 x Why  
Participants teamed up with a stranger and asked “Why did you come here today?” five times. This active listening exercise enabled the participants to dig deeper into their motivations for attending while at the same time meeting someone new.  Cards were collected and placed on a wall for all the participants to see. 


Presentation focused on Immersive Storytelling 
Nick and I shared some thoughts about immersive storytelling, the goals of the project and the opportunity to produce something that will be presented at Lincoln Center in 2015.
 

World Cafe 
Utilizing a world cafe structure participants rotated tables and  

When has a story been more than a story to you and why? 

How could you connect a million people through technology in a way that each person who participated felt they were genuinely a co-creator the experience?

If you had control of Lincoln Center for a day for a one-time experience, what would you make and why? 

The World Cafe captured the collective intelligence of the group. Together participants came up with they identified as 3 interesting challenges and opportunities. 


Rapid Prototyping Session 

We attempted to run a rapid prototyping session modeled off the three round structure of the World Cafe. 


Rough notes for the session:

Phases of Prototyping: Let’s say we do four 20 minute prototyping sessions assuming 5 minutes of shuffling between rounds, 15 minutes total to explain, and about 10 minutes to debrief would get us to 2 hours.  


The four phases should be:

Story Concept: Come up with a premise for a modern Sherlock story that can reach a large number of people. Be creative with modern interpretations of Sherlock. Write a short summary of the idea.

Connection Concept: Using the story at your table, come up with a way for many users to connect through the story as possible. Connection means a bond, so this has to be more that shared viewing. They have to participate somehow. They need to have a motivation to participate and move the story forward. Be specific and prototype this with paper.
        
Location Concept: Take the story and the connection, and set in a physical location of your choosing. How is the location a part of the experience? How does the experience fit in the location and use its strengths? Make a schematic of how the experience works in the location.
        
Experience Concept: Walk through one user’s experience of the three elements below, explaining how the user intersects with the story, connection, and location. Create a storyboard of a single user’s experience through this, demonstrating the user’s motivations, decision-making, and movement through the narrative.

Resolution Mechanic: Each person who wants to stay at the table gives one new idea to the concept. Once everyone has given an idea, all the members of the group point at the person with the best idea. That person stays with the group. You cannot point at yourself. Ties are rethrown until resolved.

Second Half: 
Take the idea at the table you choose, and prototype a slice of the experience. Focus on expanding the idea, either by introducing new objects, creating connections to other concept in the room, and imagining deeper interactions between users and the physical space. The table is your inspiration, but feel free to alter it as you design. Ideally, you want to have a testable set of interaction and story elements that can prototype your concept and provide you with a first round of feedback about how the experience works. This is competitive and participants will present their ideas to the group. Participants are encouraged to spy on and riff off of the ideas of other groups.

At the 45 minute mark, each group pitches what they have in 2 minutes and gets 2 minutes of questions. This fuels the second round of 45 minutes of work, with a final presentation.

Afterwards we realized that we 
didn’t give enough time to let this develop enough so that participants felt vested in their ideas
we told them too much up front giving them full instructions of what would come in the three rounds. 
there we’re strong enough design constraints for the participants 

It’s interesting to note that we corrected many of these things at the Oct 27th event and had better results. See below…



Oct 27th Meetup @Lincoln Center
The goal of the evening was to experiment with the balance of when participants felt connected as a collaborative group and when they felt empowered as an individual within the process. Throughout Sherlock Holmes IoT we’ll be exploring methods for collaborative design. Our goal is to share these experiments and we welcome suggestions, comments and questions… 


RUNNING ORDER
7pm – 7:05pm  (amphitheater)
Welcome and intro Frank Rose

7:05 – 7:25pm (amphitheater)
Frank Rose talks about the history of serialized stories and value of mystery within a participatory experience

*We’ll all move from the amphitheater to the studio space. Once settled in at the Studio space we’ll brief everyone.

7:25 – 7:30pm  (studio space)
Setup for Rapid Prototyping Session

Tonight we’re going to experiment with setting, object and motivation.
We’re here at Lincoln Center and a year from now this project will be unfolding on the plaza and throughout the building

Please close your eyes and imagine that you’ve entered the plaza or a building in and around Lincoln Center you stumble upon an object that could be related to a crime. But there is no need to be literal. It need not be a weapon. It could be an object that holds a story and or clues to a crime.

7:30pm – 7:40pm  (studio space)
Generate a 100 objects in the next 5 minutes. Fill the paper in front of you with potential objects…

Now as team select an object that you feel could tell an interesting story. You may only select one. Once you’ve selected one please circle it – GO

7:40pm – 8:00pm 
Rotate tables
Please look down and see the one object that the table before you selected.
Now create the object out of the materials that you have in front of you. This will be an object found at a crime scene so have some fun with it.

8:00pm – 8:20pm  (studio space)
Please look at the object that the table before you created.
Your job over the next 20 minutes is to come up with a crime that the object was involved in and to list the data that was found at the crime scene. Was it rainy, hot, cold, were people on the plaza or in the building, what did they see, is there gun powder, blood splatters and / or is something missing?  Consider how the data points can be clues for the crime you created.

Write the crime down and fold it up on a piece of paper. On the outside write the object.
On another piece of paper list out all the data associated with the crime

8:30pm to 9:00pm  (studio space)
In front of you is an object, a list of data / info found at the crimes scene and the answer to the crime itself.

As a team you are now going to channel Sherlock Holmes. Using the object and data / info found at the crime scene and craft a narrative of what happened. This is your opportunity to solve the case.

Once you have your narrative please write it. It has to fit on half a sheet of paper. A story told in 4 to 6 sentences.

Now your table is a crime scene.  Please organize it so that during the social mixer people can walk around and examine the object, the crime scene data / info and the narrative your team has crafted.

9pm to 9:30pm  (studio space)
Drinks are served and participants are given two post-it notes and asked to write down where they felt a sense of collaboration and ownership and where they felt they were an individual in the process. These responses are clustered on a nearby wall.



Nov 4th MindTrek in Helsinki 
Earlier this week, I ran a version of the Sherlock Collaborative Storytelling workshop in Tampere, Finland. I was participating at an interesting event called Mind Trek.
The participants took the workshop in some interesting directions, even though the running order was similar to the Lincoln Center version that we ran at the last meetup. 

There was one major difference; the participants constructed a collective narrative in the sense that stories and crimes connected. At the conclusion of the Lincoln Center version teams created more or less stand alone stories.

Other takeaways included…
– Seeing the points where you personally contributed is strong (wonder if these could be amplified or captured more in the process?)
– There is something in the design of this workshop that could be an interesting foundation for parts of the audience interaction at Lincoln Center next year.  For instance, people team up, move through a crime scene and construct and give meaning to the objects they touch – their creative input can be traced or is visible in some way.
– Play Holmes / Play the criminal – enabling individual participants or players or both to take on the role of Holmes or the role of the criminal could be interesting, especially if it drove the creation of stories and crimes. .

Develop worksheets / stylized 
It seems as if participants could benefit from some basic structure such as a basic form and / or forms. Having something to help focus the experience and ensure that the groups that follow have a clear understanding what came before.  This could have an interesting style so it aids the role playing aspects of the experience.  For instance, treating it like a police report that the team is asked to fill in and build upon.

Playing cards
Crime cards would be interesting as way to help define roles. This could be of value as a way to break people from traditional structure / thinking.  For example a card could request input from a silent team member (who is maybe a bit reserved) as though they are a witness that is afraid to come forward…

Setting Constraints
Feel that setting some design constraints with materials could be of value.

Data Outputs flow / friction 
This time I asked participants at the end of the workshop to write down a moment where they felt flow and a moment where they felt friction within the process. What was interesting is that similar things where listed as flows for some and for others they were frictions.  My guess is this is based on group dynamics and personality. The flow and friction feedback consisted of similar moments within the experience. IE: building the prototype or shaping the data of crime scene. However the crafting of the story seemed to appear in Friction and not Flow?

It’s important to note that there should be flow and friction. Tension can drive an experience forward and also yield interesting creative results that are often unexpected.

A dinosaur skull is the heart of a crime…

A man is found near a deadly noodle dish

The groups built an interconnecting storyline that came together in the final presentations.



Nov 21st @ Made in NYC Media Center 

Close to 40 participants came out for our November meetup at the the Made in NYC Media Center. A wonderful mix of storytellers, game designers, makers, directors, designers and producers.

A talk on locative storytelling & play
The evening started with a talk on Locative Storytelling & Play from Nick Fortugno (game designer and co-founder of Playmatics). Nick shared his experiences curating and producing Come Out & Play an urban gaming festival that has run throughout NYC over the last 10 years. Important takeaways: 1. Every space has a cultural imprint which can act as a point of inspiration when designing for a location. 2. Consider the constraints of a location as a design opportunity. If the location is dark at night work it to your advantage. If the space has acoustical issues consider how to work with them. 3. Observe how people interact within the space and work with it or choose to challenge it. 

Rapid prototyping 
Building upon the learnings from the Lincoln Center and Finland prototypes it was determined that we’d explore collaborative voting mechanics, encourage movement of teams, and build upon the balance between team space and public space. The following is the running order for the evening. 

Break everyone into teams of 5 or 6 people. A total of 6 teams are formed.

Teams are tasked with finding a place to stage their crime scene. They’re asked to collaboratively determine where to tape the outline of a body.  The teams make use of the 20,000 square foot space.  10 minutes





With crime scenes established teams return to tables covered with brown paper. Each person is asked to empty their pockets and bags. Everyone traces interesting objects.  10 minutes


Individuals are asked to select to 2 to 3 objects from the hand drawn object. They cut them out of the brown paper and then place them strategically around a body outlined in tape (the previously established crime scenes). The only rule is that it can’t be their own crime scene it must be another teams.  15 minutes


Next participants where handed post-it notes and asked to wander around and place descriptive text around the objects that feel are interesting. Each descriptive keyword or sentence is written on a post it and strategically placed around a crime scene. Once again the only rule is they can’t place them around their own crime scene.   10 minutes


With descriptive post-its in place everyone gets back into their teams and return to their own crime scenes. Together the team works to shape a crime scene narrative about what transpired as well as determining a possible motivation for the crime. Teams are given 20 minutes. 


Each team presents their narratives / theories in 2 to 3 minutes for the whole group. The meetup wraps with participants sharing a moment that worked (flowed) and moment that didn’t work for them (friction).  Click here to see the participants feedback. 



January 30th @ Made in NYC Media Center 
After iterating and running an initial prototype 7 times in NYC, Toronto, Helsinki and Ghent we decided to experiment with forming teams, clustering skills and crafting user journeys. This marked the first step in scoping what we’ll build at Lincoln Center during NYFF 53.

Over 20 participants gathered at the Made in NY Media Center by IFP in Dumbo last night for our 4th monthly meetup. Our next meetup will be held in late February – date and location TBD.

The following is the running order for the evening which consisted of a talk, open design session and reflection. It’s important to note that these sessions are intended to provide sparks of ideas. It is not a completist approach but rather a discovery process that is build upon little break throughs.

7pm to 7:20pm

view of Lincoln Center 

What, Why, How and Where of Sherlock IoT
A brief overview of the project for those who are new and reflection on what we’ve learned so far.

Design Principals
After running 7 prototyping sessions we’ve identified four design principals that we feel should carry over into the final build. The following have emerged…

1. The Trace
Where you see your contributions within the story

2. Granting Agency
Moments where your decisions and actions impact the experience

3. Thematic Frame
Designing an emergent space for Sherlock Holmes inspired creations

4. Social movement 
Encouraging unexpected collaboration between participants

Rough Schedule was shared

2014
Sept – Nov –  Prototyping

2015
Jan & Feb  – Scoping

March, April, May – Iterate and Revise

May – 1st public test / prototype

May, June, July, August, Sept – Iterate and Revise

Sept & Oct – Premiere at Lincoln Center during NYFF 53


7:30 to 9:30
Open Design Session 

7:30 to 7:45
Body Storming session 
Participants take on various roles as they are encouraged to move throughout the space and meet others. Interesting to note is that the results of this exercise yielded the strongest ideas to date in the sense that they were very focused and had detailed interactions.  


 
Participants start by defining a “role” from one of four options. They select a color post-it each representing a different category.

Pick a post-it note from the board (each of the following has a different color)

10 to 12 post-its per category to ensure more of a balance across categories.

1. Your a piece of technology
2. Your place where people gather
3. Your a player
4. Your a object

Once categories are selected participants create a piece of technology, a place to gather, a player or an object.

Participants mingle with others to stimulate ideas. In some instances they end up teaming up with others to create a shared idea.


     
7:45 to 8:00
Map the Experience 

Participants are asked to
– create an idea for an interaction
– provide a back story to give context
– create an elevator pitch that captures your idea and gives it context so its easier for others to understand

Participants then place their elevator pitches (written on a card) on a large map of Lincoln Center. They are asked to place the ideas some where that is iconic or most relevant to the idea.

 
Once the elevator pitch cards are placed on the map. The creators share the ideas to the group.

 
8:00 to 8:10
Skill Clustering 
With elevator pitch cards placed on the map participants are asked to consider 3 skills that they have and would be willing to share. Participants write one skill per post-it note and place their skills next to the pitches (ideas) they are interested in supporting.

   
8:10 – 8:30
Craft User Journeys 
Participants break into groups based on interest and skills
The groups use the elevator pitch of the idea as a jumping off point. They build upon the idea and work to construct User Journey Stories that they will need to present to the group.
 
 
8:30 – 8:45
Question NO Answer 
Teams present initial ideas to the group. The group asks questions to help elevate the initial ideas. These are “Yes and” questions. The questions can’t be answered by the presenting team but instead they listen, write down the questions and any the thoughts that come to mind.


8:45 – 9:20
Teams iterate and revise their User Journey Stories

9:20 – 9:30
Final presentations by teams

9:30 to 9:45
Refection of session and next steps for the project. Participants are asked

1. How many people did you talk to during the body storming phase?
2. How many of you stuck with the idea you created during the body storming session?
3. How did the idea change during the open design session?
 
Reflection

Role playing with brainstorming
– makes it social
– focus on the interaction rather than just the story

Clustering by skills 
– determining how people what to contribute but instead of leading with skills lead with the idea first
– participants listed skills based on known skills and/or desire to learn new skills

Seeds of ideas
– we discuss how these open design sessions are intended to provide seeds of ideas that can spark something larger.


April 25th @ Made in NY Media Center
On April 25th we ran an all day Sherlock Lab at the Made in NY Media Center in Dumbo. Here's a video that participant Patricia G. Antelles created. Thanks Patricia! 


http://vimeo.com/126054025    
